Title: Gap Year Dreams
Author: Peter Downs
Date: Sunday, December 29, 2013

# Gap Year Dreams

As it says in [my short "about" page](/about.html), I'm 20 years old and I work
in San Francisco. What that page does not include is how I ended up with a
full-time job at the tender age of 18. How I moved across the country on a whim
to see if I could make it in the tech world; how I put off one of my dreams (to
go to MIT) to pursue another; how I left my home and my family and my friends
and put myself in an extremely uncomfortable situation, just to see what it
would be like. Sometimes I have a hard time writing down my thoughts so I'm
going to just go ahead and start from the beginning.


### April 2012

I think it was in April that I began talking with Hyperink. I had skimmed
through the "Who's Hiring" page on Hacker News and they were one of the few
companies that was interesting to me — I wanted to work on natural language
processing, and they were an ebook company. Mek Karpeles, their lead engineer,
interviewed me over Skype. I remember feeling like I hadn't done all that well,
but he must have liked me because the last question was directly related to [a
project I had been working on for a couple of months](http://bookshrink.com).
This is a great interview technique, although now I tend to open with it —
asking questions about applicants' past projects really gives them a chance to
show what they know.

The next day, Hyperink asked me to fly out for a day of on-site interviews. My
parents were surprised (they didn't know I was looking for a job) but excited
for me. Taking the time off of school was no trouble (I would just miss two
days) and a couple of weeks later I flew to San Francisco.

So this was pretty cool. At this point I think I was very excited about coming
to work in the heart of the tech industry. Over the course of a day at Hyperink,
I got the impression that the company was doing pretty well and that the
employees liked their jobs. The bosses seemed fair, and the work seemed
interesting. I spent a couple of hours with Mek hacking on a way to find domain
experts on Tumblr by combining various different searches and tag filters. At
the end of the day I demoed what we had working, and then flew back home.

I guess I did well because soon after that I received a formal job offer.
$54,000 a year sounded like a lot of money to me, for a year of work (after
which I would head to MIT), so I accepted! I felt like hot shit back at school.
My friends were going to spend the summer freaking out about college, and here I
was about to leave for the "real world" and start making cold, hard cash!

My parents were happy for me, and my father was extremely helpful in figuring
out the contracts and paperwork related to the new job. We were all worried
about whether or not everything would work out once I was across the country,
but I have some extended family in San Francisco so there was some sort of
safety net should everything fall apart. In the worst case scenario, we all
agreed that I could walk away and come back to Philadelphia until heading off to
college in the fall of 2013. I graduated from highschool, said goodbye to my
friends, and got ready to leave.

(PICTURE HERE)


### June 2012

I flew out and moved in to my apartment — the second floor of a small home in
the Excelsior (south of the city, near the Glen Park BART station.) I was
sharing the apartment with two of my cousins, Anna and Morgan. They both moved
in before me so I was stuck with the small, shitty room. My own place!

(PICTURE HERE)

Well, it turns out that the real world isn't exactly ideal. I was enjoying my
work, but I had a half hour commute and I didn't get along very well with my
roommates, even though they were family. We rarely saw each other, so that was
OK, but Morgan would stay up all night playing videogames and Anna did not clean
up after herself. I rarely left my room when I was at home, and I didn't know
many people in the city so I didn't have many reasons to go out. I became a
regular customer at the burrito place around the corner. All of my meals outside
of work were take out.

At work, I did well. It took some time to adjust to a more adult environment
but with the help of my coworkers I quickly got up to speed. The first big
project I took on was adding PayPal checkout as an option to the online store
we ran. After some hard work, I was able to come up with a good implementation.
After running the analytics, it seemed like sales increased and about 1/3rd of
our customers were using PayPal, which made me feel pretty awesome. I helped
increase the company's bottom line!

### August 2012

Come August, I had worked on a couple of other projects (mostly related to
internal tools) but the luster on my startup dream was beginning to fade.  $54k
before taxes ended up not being all that much in the Bay Area; after rent, and
saving for college, I didn't have all that much money to go out and do fun
things. I had a lot more money than most people, and for that I'm thankful, but
I wasn't going out and partying every night or spending on anything lavish.

Then, in the middle of the month, I got some bad news. Kevin and Matt, the two
founders of Hyperink, brought me and Govil (the summer intern) into a meeting.
Kevin told us that he had decided to step away from Hyperink, and that Matt was
not interested in running the company without him. They believed that although
mildly successful, Hyperink would never become a great success. Most of the
staff would be let go, but we were welcome to stay on (Govil through the end of
the summer; me until the fall of 2013) with a serious cut in pay. I was told
that they would find "something" for me to do over that time — mostly site
maintenance, and definitely no new work on the product. So that was a pretty
shitty day. It was in one way a relief — the mood in the office had felt strange
for the past two weeks, and I had been worried about getting fired. In another,
it fucking sucked, because I essentially no longer had a job. Out of the ~18
employees, including the founders, 12 were let go that day.

I called my parents and told them the news, which was a pretty stressful
conversation. I had been planning on spending the whole year at Hyperink before
going to college, so there was now the question of what I was going to do
instead. I couldn't afford to stay on with the reduced salary, and I didn't
want to stay on with the reduced responsibilities. I had already told MIT that
I was taking the year off, so although it might be possible to go to school
that fall, it would take some effort. Pride also played a role: I felt like it
would be failing to have only managed to make it 3 months before "giving up."
I've always been the kind of person to see things through to the end.

After some careful thought, I began looking for another job.
